Meditating is a great way to ease the frantic state of mind many find themselves in.
Meditation is shown to thicken the pre-frontal cortex. This brain center manages higher order brain function, like increased awareness, concentration, and decision making. Changes in the brain show,
with meditation, higher-order functions become stronger, while lower-order brain activities decrease. In other words, you have the power to train your brain.

HOW TO MEDITATE:
Simply sit or lie down in a comfortable position, either in a chair, floor, or bed, close your eyes and begin to focus on your breath. When you get lost in your thoughts which you will, gently bring
your attention back to your breath. Remember do not breathe in a specific manner just breathe naturally, also do not force your attention on the breath just acknowledge it.

BIG BRAIN BENIFITS:
Meditation benefits for the brain are abundant. Meditating strengthens neural connections and can literally change the configuration of these networks. With regular practice, you can cultivate a more
resilient neurobiology.

MINDFULNESS TO MANAGE YOUR MOOD AND WELL BEING:
Just Like exercise for your body, meditation helps to condition your mind. Confronting and letting go of unwanted psychological states, like anxiety and fear, releases their hold and
the associated conditioned response.

SOME OF THE RESEARCH BACKING MINDFULNESS AND MEDITATION BENIFIITS FOR THE BRAIN:
1) One randomized controlled study found mindfulness-based therapy over 56 weeks significantly reduced the period of time before relapse of episodes of low mood. It also helped with long and short-term
healthy mood maintenance. Participants reported experiencing a better quality of life.
2) Another study showed eight weeks of mindfulness-based therapy improved participant’s mental health scores. This lead to important conclusions, like relief of anxiety in the mind from meditation being
tied to the regulation of self-referential thought processes. Anxiety is a cognitive state that occurs when you’re unable to control your emotional state due to perceived threats.
3) After an eight-week mindfulness course, participant MRI scans showed a reduction in the brain’s fight or flight center associated with fear and emotion. The amygdala—a part of the brain that controls
your body’s stress response during perceived danger—is a key biomarker of stress in your body.

BRAIN STRUCTURE AND NUROPLASTICITY:
Mindful meditation can create physical changes in the brain through neuroplasticity. This increasingly popular concept refers to the brain’s ability to reorganize and change continuously throughout
your lifespan. Behavior and lifestyle are the major influencers on the brain. Your brain constantly create new neural connections to adjust according to the changes in your environment. How you think
and feel changes these neural structures. If you constantly do something your brain changes, reshapes or rewires itself acoording to the activity and wants you to do that again and again.if you are
indulged in healthy activities you brain rewires itself according to them, and if you are indulged in unhealthy habits your brain rewires itself according to those habits.

By flexing the muscle of thoughtful attention, again and again, you effectively change the “physique,” or shape, of your brain. And it’s doesn’t take much
time, either.
Studies have shown it only takes eight weeks to change the shape of your brain, including an increase of gray matter volume. Gray matter is found in your central nervous system, and makes up of most
of your brain’s neuronal cell bodies. This type of tissue is particularly important in areas responsible for muscle control, sensory perception, emotion, memory, decision-making, and self-control.
grey matter is directly proportional to motivation, studies have shown that people who have more amount of grey matter in their brain are highly motivated, and are more likely to achieve
their goals. people who are addicted to porn experience shrinking of the grey matter. Through neuroplasticity, you can create and improve the connections between neurons as you alter the density of
gray matter. You can effectively change your brain in just a few minutes a day.

SEEING THE BRAIN THROUGH MEDITATION:
The many meditation benefits for the brain triggered by daily practice are staggering.During the first few minutes of your meditation session, the "ventromedial prefrontal cortex" (patients with damage
to this brain region "the prefrontal cortex" are more likely to experience anxiety) is the first area to light up. As you ease into a meditative state, your brain is still bouncing from thought to
thought—the monkey mind active in the trees. Thoughts that surface can be exaggerated outcomes due to your lived experience.

When you’re able to rein in your attention, the "lateral prefrontal cortex" activates. Thoughts during this phase are more rational and balanced, helping you see a more neutral perspective. Now you’ve
settled into the sweet spot of meditation.

Practice for several weeks (8 to 12) activates the "dorsomedial prefrontal cortex". In this state, empathy can develop, and compassion easily arises. This range of activation in the brain becomes
stronger the longer you practice

The dedicated practice creates a gateway to a dynamic, gracious life.

RELEASE CHEMICAL HELPERS WITH MEDITATION:
Your brain naturally releases key neurotransmitters (brain chemicals) that help regulate the balance of vital hormones. They influence systems throughout the mind and body.
Studies show practicing meditation can directly impact the level of these crucial neurotransmitters produced in the brain. Mindfulness can have a measurable impact on these brain chemicals:
1)"Serotonin"— increases this “feel good” chemical to help regulate mood.
2)"Cortisol"— decreases this stress hormone.
3)"DHEA"— boosts levels of this longevity hormone.
4)"GABA (Gamma-aminobutyric acid)"— improves the calming effect of this major inhibitory transmitter in your central nervous system (CNS).
5)"Endorphins"— increases the “natural high” of this overall happiness neurotransmitter.
6)"Growth Hormone"— elevates levels of this youth-preserving chemical that naturally declines with age.
7)"Melatonin"— boosts this “sleep hormone” responsible for restful sleep and helps with mood regulation.

CONCLUSION:
Meditation, just like exercise, can transform your brain. As a more mindful individual, you’ll create a more whole, conscious experience with more meaningful connection. It’s within your power to 
change your brain — start today.
